------------ October 26th --------------
The Beginning of the Journey...

I set out on the journey of making a personal website for CS410. 
This wouldnt be the first personal website I have create but I really
wanted to make it something I am proud of and want to share with others.

I began by figuring out what I wanted my webpage to look like. I chose my 
color scheme and basic layout and begin to create a barebones webpage.

Since I am wanting to go into Cybersecurity, i wanted to go for a very simple
monotype based webpage. Although it is a very simple plan, it can be hard to visually 
nail down and make perfect. I plan to use bootstrap or CSS grids at the moment
to allow compatibility in different browser sizes. But this will be for a later day. 

When choosing my colors, i used https://coolors.co/ to ensure the colors 
would look good together and also that they were accessible for people who
are color blind. This site will show you what the site looks like for the many
different types of color blindness and it really helped me better visualize it. 
Since I was going for a hackereque look I could have gone with the basic black and 
green like most webpages I have seen to basically mimic a terminal window. But 
instead i chose to add a personal touch of using my favorite color, blue, and then 
made the background a softer dark grey. This should open the webpage up a bit more in
terms of viewing. 

In the future, I have though about the potential to add a light/dark mode since 
this has been a very popular trend recently with the most recent OS on both mac and PC, 
but i have not quite looked into how to implement this. I assume it will involve JS or React. 

After picking the colors and having a general idea of a them, i created a bare barebones
html webpage and made sure it was functional. I then continued by adding a css page and added
font that i chose from googles open source font webpage as well as added my colors as variables
in the stylesheet. 

I then began to tackle the task of a basic nav bar. 

------------ November 4th --------------
I began the task of the Navbar today. I first wanted to figure out how to figure out how a typcial
hamburger menu would work. After viewing multiple different sites, i found that there is a way to 
use a checkbox and basically hide and expand a menu by simply clicking the "hidden Checkbox". I 
viewed the following for guidance on this matter:
https://css-tricks.com/the-checkbox-hack/

My next task is to determine whether I am wanting to use a flexbox, css grid or bootstrap. I am 
thinking that i will use a CSS grid since it allows great flexibility on the layout of the overall 
page. 

While designing my layout I decided to remove the independant Home button from the navbar and move 
it to use my name as the home button. 

Now back to the grid... I plan on using a layout similar to the following:
grid-template-areas: 
    "About About About About"
    "Previous-Work-1 Previous-Work-1 Previous-Work Previous-Work"
    "Projects Projects Projects Projects"
    "Contact Contact Contact Contact"; 
This grid is subject to change but currently this is how it will be laid out in 
desktop mode. 

After Adding the grid I have noticed that in tablet mode the menu will block some of the text on 
clicking the hamburger. I will need to look into this to determine if there is a way to offeset on click.

-- November 19---
Today I decided i wanted to make my page look more vintage by making it look like an old imac screen.
To do so i created a div that will be smaller than the webpage and this will display my webpage.

I started by determing how to make box that only display the amount of text which is on the screen. 
I noticed that i am also going to need to put some extra work in to make sure this is responsive to different screensizes.
This was where i began to notice that i will need to go back to the drawing board on the size in which i chsoe for my 
bootstrap. I say this because the page does not resize properly when going from 1024px to 414px. I decided that I am going to 
make a simplified version of the website for mobile standards. This will basically get rid of the deco frame in which i created
to make it look like a old mac.

--- November 20 ---
My next step was to begin filling my webpage with content since I have gotten it prety close to how i want it to look.
I started with the previous work section, first i added a button so you can download my resume, i am still thinking if i wanna
develop a window that will popup and present my resume or if i just wanna make it downloadable. For now downloadable is a good start.

I ran into a problem when trying to use unorganized and organized lists in this section. I found that i was not getting any numbers
or any bullets displayed onto the page with the text. I then realized globally set lists to not display bullets because of the way i 
set up my main menu. To solve this i assigned a id to the list so i can control just this list.

The resume was added and I chose to host the pdf through my google drive since it has a built in pdf viewer and will give the personal
the option to download the pdf if they want versus requiring someone to download it every time they click the button. 

--- November 21 --
Today, I changed the look around on my webpage once again... It was not as responsive as i had wanted it so i started by removing a few of the
deco peices and instead decided to just make it look like a old generic crt monitor instead of a mac classic like i originally planned.
I also decided to move the menubar down onto the CRT and make it look like its part of the operating system. I did this because i plan to add a 
screen flicker when i complete the actual content on my website and i wanted to make a way for the user to turn it off if they did not want the 'crt effect'.

I attached a few articles i used to aid in my setting up of a sticky menu as well as my research into how to make a sub menu in the naviation bar.
https://www.w3schools.com/howto/howto_js_navbar_sticky.asp
https://www.w3schools.com/howto/howto_css_subnav.asp

One of my biggest challenges today was trying to make a sticky item inside of my scrollable div. I found a way to do it in the end, this was found by lots 
of trial in error with various css code until i was able to not only make it sticky but also set it to the front of all the layers with a z-index of 9999.

--- November 22 ---
Today was a pretty short day for working on this website, the main that that was done was adjusting the padding so the anchors on my page would take into account the 
menu bar. I did so by adjusting the top padding for the h2 heading.

--- November 25 ---
Today i tackled the contact form, my plan was to just make a very simple and easy to fillout contact form. 
I also wanted to make some sort of error tracking, ie. name doesnt get entered.  I was able to find a way to do so by
using javascript to collect the data from the form and validate that there was actually data in that field. 
After completing this form and layout i tried a few different things but i was unable to find a way to actually link this to 
my email so i would actually receive the contact form data. I am hoping to go back to this at some point once i find a plugin or 
have time to dig through my old php book from highschool. 

--- November 26 ---
Today i mainly just made a small "success" banner. So when a survey is filled out correctly, I pass a string of words 
from JS to the main html file to allow the users to know their form has been submitted. I added a time delay to this to allow
plenty of time to read the notice.

--- Novemeber 28 --- 
I am getting close to being done and having a presentable webpage. Today i moved the outer display bezel from the background into its own div to account for 
a more realistic CRT monitor. I also attempted to add a effect of a CRT monitor turning on and off but had no luck as the CSS i found online for animations was
a bit too advanced for me to figure out and after an hour or so of messing with it, it was not turning out how i would like. Since i am running out of time i chose
to scrap this for now. I now just have a few things left i would like to accomplish before
deploying to the web.

Things to to:
- finish sub menu on main menu bar
    + Add some options to do things like change color or text, etc.
- adjust colors for mobile menu
- fix the mobile menu and how it shows up and dissapears
- adjust some of the responsive media settings
- finish up the projects category
- add an expertise areas   
    + Language specialties
    + Special Interests
- add console log of contact us form

--- November 29 ---
For today my goal was to start filling in the empty spaces on my webpage. The main sectinon worked on was the projects section. I removed my place holders and 
began to fill them with projects from my github.

--- November 30 ---
As I come up upon the last day I have till my project is due, i began by looking at my list and my project as a whole and started to decide what i wanted to 
accomplish. I started by trying to make expandable divs, this was a pretty hard thing to figure out, as i had to find a way to make a item in question open 
and close without affecting the other components. I originally tried to do this without implementing javascript but was having no luck. I ran across this tutorial 
https://www.w3schools.com/howto/howto_js_collapsible.asp and i was able to successfully find a way to make a collapsible div. 

One problem i ran into was that when i added more than one collapsible div there was a problem in which all the divs would open and close at once. To solve 
this problem for now I had to duplicate the class in the function and basically create a different class name so they dont work at the same time. In the future I plan
to implement a index of sorts so it would automatically do this based off the index.




